# CS340
## Writing maintainable, readable, and adaptable programs
Writing programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable is crucial for building high-quality software. A big part of this is to write clean, well-organized code which includes good naming practices of functions and variables and including comments and documentation for the code. By following these methods, I am able to write code that is easily understandable by not only me but by any other developers that may need to work with my code. And, by keeping my code easily understood, it is easier to maintain and alter in the furture as well as adapt to fit future projects. 

Another important part of writing maintainable, readable and adaptable code is to follow good software engineering practices such as encapsulation, modularization, and abstraction. I follow these practices by breaking my code down into more manageable components and by using well-defined interfaces to hide the implementation details. By breaking up the code in this way, it not only becomes more readable, but also easier to maintain and adapt.

My CRUD Python module, which contains the code for creating, reading, updating, and deleting records, is an excellent representation of all of the aspects of writing a maintainable, readable, and adaptable program. The code itself is clean and well commented and by decoupling the database access code from the user interface code in this manner, it will be easier to alter the underlying database implementation without having to make changes to the interface code. Not only that but it allows for testing of the database access code in isolation from the interface code. 

By writing the program in this manner, the Python CRUD module can be used in future projects that require database access using Python such as a web application to store data or to perform queries on a large dataset in a data analysis tool. Following these good coding practices allows me to create a good foundation of reusable components that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable in the long term.

## Approaching a problem as a computer Scientist
As a computer scientist, I approach a problem by first understanding the problem requirements and constraints, whether that is through discorse with the client, user feedback or whatever method is neccessary. Next, I break down the problem into smaller components that are more manageable and then design and implement a solution that addresses the problem.

When working on the database and dashboard requirements for Grazioso Salvare for this project, I began by analyzing the data while considering the desired features for the dashboard. Next, I worked with the database schema and created the Python CRUD module to interface the data, testing it thoroughly to be sure of its functionality. Finally, using the CRUD module, I implemented the desired dashboard features. My approach to this project was a little different than in previous courses mostly because this project required a more holistic approach than I was accustomed to. This was because it required understanding and integrating different components, like the database and dashboard, into one cohesive project. In the future, I would likely use a similar approach by thoroughly obtaining and understanding the clients needs and then breaking that up into smaller, more managable parts and then designing solutions. I can also continue to implement the code that I have created since i have used good coding practices to make it adaptable to futue projects.

## What do computer scientists do and why does it matter?
How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

Computer science is a broad subject containing many different specializations, but generally speaking, computer scientists apply principles of computation and information to solve complex problems and develop new technologies. This work can be in the form of disigning complex algorithms, new software or hardware systems, and data analysis that requires interpreting data and making meaningful insights and predictions.

In the case of my work on this project for Grazioso Salvare, I disigned and implemeneted a database system to effectively manage and query the company's data and interfaced it with a user-friendly dashboard. This dashboard not only allows for a user-friendly method to interact with the company's data but also provides the company and their stakeholders access to valuable insights based upon the data. This computer science work streamlined the companys database management and allowed the company more valuable insight on their data.
